woe to the shepherds who destroy and
scatter the Sheep of my pasture says the
Lord therefore thus says the Lord God of
Israel against the shepherds who feed my
people you have scattered my flock
driven them away and not attended to
them behold I will attend to you for the
evil of your doings says the Lord but I
will gather the remnant of my flock out
of all countries where I have driven
them and bring them back to their folds
and they shall be fruitful and increase
I will set up Shepherds over them who
will feed them and they shall fear no
more nor be dismayed nor shall they be
lacking says the Lord behold the days
are coming says the Lord that I will
raise to David a branch of righteousness
a king shall reign and prosper and
execute judgment and righteousness in
the earth in his days Judah will be
saved and Israel will dwell safely now
this is his name by which he will be
called the Lord our righteousness
therefore behold the days are coming
says the Lord that they shall no longer
say as the Lord lives who brought up the
children of Israel from the land of
Egypt but as the Lord lives who brought
up and led the descendents of the house
of Israel from the north country and
from all the countries where I had
driven them
they shall dwell in their own land my
heart within me is broken because of the
prophets all my bones shake I am like a
drunken man and like a man who wine has
overcome because of the lord and because
of his holy words for the land is full
of adulterers for because of a curse the
land mourns the pleasant places of the
wilderness are dried up their course of
life is evil and their might is not
right for both prophet and priests are
profaned yes in my house I have found
their wickedness says the Lord therefore
their way shall be to them like slippery
ways in the darkness they shall be
driven on and fall in them for I will
bring disaster on them the year of their
punishment and I have seen folly in the
prophets of Samaria they prophesied by
bail and caused my people Israel to err
also I have seen a horrible thing in the
prophets of Jerusalem they commit
adultery and walk in lives they also
strengthen their hands of evildoers so
that no one turns back from his
wickedness all of them are like sodom to
me and her inhabitants like gomorrah
therefore thus says the lord of hosts
concerning the prophets behold I will
feed them with wormwood and make them
drink the water of gall for from the
prophets of Jerusalem profaneness has
gone out into all the land thus says the
Lord of hosts do not listen to the words
of the prophets who prophesy to you they
make you worthless they speak a vision
of their own heart not from the mouth of
the Lord they continually say to those
who despise me the Lord has said you
shall have peace and to everyone who
walks according to the dictates of his
own heart they say no evil shall come
upon you for who has stood in the
counsel of the Lord and has perceived
and heard his word who has marked his
word and heard it behold a whirlwind of
the Lord has gone forth in fury a
violent whirlwind it will fall violently
on the head of the wicked the anger of
the Lord will not turn back until he has
executed and performed the thoughts of
his heart in the latter days you will
understand it perfectly I have not sent
these prophets yet they ran I have not
spoken to them yet they prophesied but
if they had stood in my counsel and had
caused my people to hear my words then
they would have turned them from their
evil way and from the evil of their
doings am i a God near at hand says the
Lord and not a God afar off can anyone
hide himself in secret places so I shall
not see him says the Lord do I not fill
heaven and earth says the Lord I have
heard what the prophets have said who
prophesy lies in my name saying
I have dreamed I have dreamed how long
will this be in the heart of the
prophets who prophesy lies indeed they
are prophets of the deceit of their own
heart who tried to make my people forget
my name by their dreams which everyone
tells his neighbor as their fathers
forgot my name for bail the prophet who
has a dream let him tell the dream and
he who has my word
let him speak my word faithfully what is
the chaff to the wheat says the Lord is
not my word like a fire says the Lord
and like a hammer that breaks the rock
in pieces therefore behold I am against
the prophet says the Lord who steal my
words every one from his neighbor behold
I am against the prophet says the Lord
who used their tongues and Saint he says
behold I am against those who prophesy
false dreams says the Lord and tell them
and cause my people to err by their
lives and by their recklessness yet I
did not send them or command them
therefore they shall not profit this
people at all says the Lord so when
these people or the prophet or the
priest ask you saying what is the Oracle
of the Lord you shall then say to them
what Oracle I will even forsake you and
as for the prophet and the priest and
the people who say the Oracle of the
Lord I will even punish that man and his
house thus every one of you shall say to
his neighbor and everyone to his brother
what has the Lord answered and what has
the Lord spoken and the Oracle of the
Lord you shall mention no more
for every man's world will be his Oracle
for you have perverted the words of the
Living God the Lord of Hosts our God
thus you shall say to the Prophet what
has the Lord answered you and what has
the Lord spoken but since you say the
Oracle of the Lord therefore thus says
the Lord because you say this word the
Oracle of the Lord and I have sent to
you saying do not say the Oracle of the
Lord therefore behold I even I will
utterly forget you and forsake you and
the city that I gave you and your
fathers and will cast you out of my
presence and I will bring an everlasting
reproach upon you and a perpetual shame
which shall not be forgotten